## Introduction
In this blog, you will learn how to create a blogger website and host it in your own custom domain. If you follow this blog completely, I am sure you could create your own website in minutes and the good thing about it is you don't need to code a single line for it.
## TL;DR
- Fork the repository [karthikeyan-live/blog](https://github.com/karthikeyan-live/blog)
- Fork the repository [karthikeyan-live/blog-posts](https://github.com/karthikeyan-live/blog-posts) and edit your data.
- Create new [Firebase project](https://console.firebase.google.com/) and enable Hosting

## Tech Stack
- **React Library** - for blog template
- **Markdown** - for blog post
- **GitHub** - for source control and CI
- **Firebase** - for free hosting
- **Google Analytics** - for tracking the website traffic
- **GoDaddy** - custom domain purchase

## Blog Template
I already created a started template for blog post in [this](https://github.com/karthikeyan-live/karthikeyan-live) GitHub repository. I prefer you to fork this repository(as say `blog-template`) instead of downloading it (to keep the improvements up to date). 
Before proceeding further, I will let you know what this starter code will do. This is built using `create-react-app` and has 2 pages, one(HomePage) for displaying all the available blog posts and one(BlogPage) for displaying the selected blog post. This will pick the blog posts from any another repository with a specific format, which we will configure in the GitHub environment variables later.
## Blog Posts
Create another repository in GitHub (say `blog-posts`), this is where you will add your new blog posts in the future (you may even forgot about the `blog-template` repository once you configured it). Create a file `index.json` in the root of the `blog-posts` repository, the details about the author and the blog posts will be listed here to show it in the HomePage of the website.
Paste the below code snippet in the `index.json` file.

    
    { 
	   "author":{ 
	      "firstName":"Karthikeyan",
	      "lastName":"Chandrasekar",
	      "description":"Product Manager | Web Developer and interested in volunteering activities.",
		  "imageUrl":"https://randomuser.me/api/portraits/men/75.jpg",
	      "email":"karthikeyan.live@hotmail.com",
	      "twitter":"https://twitter.com/karthikeyanlive",
	      "github":"https://github.com/karthikeyan-live",
	      "skype":"karthikeyan.live@hotmail.com"
	   },
	   "posts":[ 
	      { 
	         "title":"Create your personal blog website in minutes without a single line of code",
	         "id":1001,
	         "imageUrl":"https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1508138221679-760a23a2285b?ixlib=rb-1.2.1&ixid=eyJhcHBfaWQiOjEyMDd9&auto=format&fit=crop&w=1934&q=80",
	         "description":"Create your personal blog website(with custom domain) in minutes, without a single line of code. This uses GitHub, CirceCI and Firebase Hosting",
	         "published":"18/Nov/2019",
	         "tags":[ 
	            "blog",
	            "react",
	            "firebase"
	         ]
	      },
	      { 
	         "title":"This is a dummy blog post",
	         "id":1002,
	         "imageUrl":"https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1494253109108-2e30c049369b?ixlib=rb-1.2.1&ixid=eyJhcHBfaWQiOjEyMDd9&auto=format&fit=crop&w=1350&q=80",
	         "description":"",
	         "published":"",
	         "tags":[ 
	            "dummy",
	            "react"
	         ]
	      }
	   ]
	}
    
So, let us see a little bit about the above JSON. This JSON has 2 objects, one holding the details about the author and the another to hold the blog posts. This will be the feed for the HomePage of our website.
Create a folder `posts` in the root of the repository `blog-posts`, under this folder create a md file for your post the file name will be the id of your blog post, creating a file name `1001.md` can be browse using `www.yourdomain.com/blog/1001`.
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbMjI5NjkxMDIwLC0yMTM5MzM1NDIyLDE4Mz
k5MzMzMTMsMTkyMDEzODYyNiwtOTU0MTQwNjY2LC0yMDI3ODk4
Mjk2LDEwMTY1NTU1OTksLTE3ODI4MTk0NTgsLTg1MzAzODA3NV
19
-->